README.md, before:

# Setup Rclone for GitHub Actions
Setup [Rclone](https://rclone.org) on GitHub Actions to use `rclone`.

This action installs [Rclone](https://rclone.org) for use in actions by installing it on tool cache using [AnimMouse/tool-cache](https://github.com/AnimMouse/tool-cache).

This action is implemented as a [composite](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/creating-actions/creating-a-composite-action) action.

## Usage
To use `rclone`, run this action before `rclone`.

Encode the rclone.conf file in Base64 using this command `base64 -w 0 rclone.conf` and paste it to `RCLONE_CONFIG` secret.

### Single command
```yaml
steps:
  - name: Setup Rclone
    uses: AnimMouse/setup-rclone@v1
    with:
      rclone_config: ${{ secrets.RCLONE_CONFIG }}
      
  - run: rclone copy source:sourcepath dest:destpath
```
For bare remote with exposed colon, use single quotes to prevent the YAML parser from the ambiguity of colon. (Nested mappings are not allowed in compact mappings.)
```yaml
steps:
  - name: Setup Rclone
    uses: AnimMouse/setup-rclone@v1
    with:
      rclone_config: ${{ secrets.RCLONE_CONFIG }}
      
  - run: 'rclone copy source: dest:'
```

### Multiple commands
```yaml
steps:
  - name: Setup Rclone
    uses: AnimMouse/setup-rclone@v1
    with:
      rclone_config: ${{ secrets.RCLONE_CONFIG }}
      
  - run: |
      rclone copy source:sourcepath dest:destpath
      rclone copy source: dest:
```
For bare remote with exposed colon, no need to use single quotes.

### Encrypted rclone config
Paste your Rclone config pass to `RCLONE_CONFIG_PASS` secret.

```yaml
steps:
  - name: Setup Rclone
    uses: AnimMouse/setup-rclone@v1
    with:
      rclone_config: ${{ secrets.RCLONE_CONFIG }}
      
  - run: rclone copy source:sourcepath dest:destpath
    env:
      RCLONE_CONFIG_PASS: ${{ secrets.RCLONE_CONFIG_PASS }}
```

### Config-less operation
You can use Rclone without a config file by using command line options or environment variables.

```yaml
steps:
  - name: Setup Rclone
    uses: AnimMouse/setup-rclone@v1
    
  - run: 'rclone lsd --http-url https://beta.rclone.org :http:'
    
  - run: 'rclone lsd :http:'
    env:
      RCLONE_HTTP_URL: https://beta.rclone.org
```

### Specific version
You can specify the version you want. By default, this action downloads the latest version.

```yaml
steps:
  - name: Setup Rclone
    uses: AnimMouse/setup-rclone@v1
    with:
      rclone_config: ${{ secrets.RCLONE_CONFIG }}
      version: v1.61.0
```

### GitHub token
This action automatically uses a GitHub token in order to authenticate with GitHub API and avoid rate limiting. You can also specify your own read-only fine-grained personal access token.

```yaml
steps:
  - name: Setup Rclone
    uses: AnimMouse/setup-rclone@v1
    with:
      rclone_config: ${{ secrets.RCLONE_CONFIG }}
      token: ${{ secrets.GH_PAT }}
```

#### Similar actions
1. [NiceLabs/rclone-action](https://github.com/NiceLabs/rclone-action)
2. [wei/rclone](https://github.com/wei/rclone)
3. [andreiio/rclone-action](https://github.com/andreiio/rclone-action)

Commit message:

feat: Allow plain text Rclone config by disabling Base64

README.md, after:

# Setup Rclone for GitHub Actions
Setup [Rclone](https://rclone.org) on GitHub Actions to use `rclone`.

This action installs [Rclone](https://rclone.org) for use in actions by installing it on tool cache using [AnimMouse/tool-cache](https://github.com/AnimMouse/tool-cache).

This action is implemented as a [composite](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/creating-actions/creating-a-composite-action) action.

## Usage
To use `rclone`, run this action before `rclone`.

Encode the rclone.conf file in Base64 using this command `base64 -w 0 rclone.conf` and paste it to `RCLONE_CONFIG` secret.

### Single command
```yaml
steps:
  - name: Setup Rclone
    uses: AnimMouse/setup-rclone@v1
    with:
      rclone_config: ${{ secrets.RCLONE_CONFIG }}
      
  - run: rclone copy source:sourcepath dest:destpath
```
For bare remote, use single quotes to stop YAML parser from interpreting the remote as a key-value pair.
```yaml
steps:
  - name: Setup Rclone
    uses: AnimMouse/setup-rclone@v1
    with:
      rclone_config: ${{ secrets.RCLONE_CONFIG }}
      
  - run: 'rclone copy source: dest:'
```

### Multiple commands
```yaml
steps:
  - name: Setup Rclone
    uses: AnimMouse/setup-rclone@v1
    with:
      rclone_config: ${{ secrets.RCLONE_CONFIG }}
      
  - run: |
      rclone copy source:sourcepath dest:destpath
      rclone copy source: dest:
```
For bare remote in pipes, no need to use single quotes as YAML parser does not interpret the remote as a key-value pair.

### Encrypted Rclone config
Paste your Rclone config pass to `RCLONE_CONFIG_PASS` secret.

```yaml
steps:
  - name: Setup Rclone
    uses: AnimMouse/setup-rclone@v1
    with:
      rclone_config: ${{ secrets.RCLONE_CONFIG }}
      
  - run: rclone copy source:sourcepath dest:destpath
    env:
      RCLONE_CONFIG_PASS: ${{ secrets.RCLONE_CONFIG_PASS }}
```

### Config-less operation
You can use Rclone without a config file by using command line options or environment variables.

```yaml
steps:
  - name: Setup Rclone
    uses: AnimMouse/setup-rclone@v1
    
  - run: 'rclone lsd --http-url https://beta.rclone.org :http:'
    
  - run: 'rclone lsd :http:'
    env:
      RCLONE_HTTP_URL: https://beta.rclone.org
```

### Plain text Rclone config
You can disable Base64 so that you can input config file in plain text. This will allow you to place config file directly on YAML or get the config file from outputs.

```yaml
steps:
  - name: Setup Rclone
    uses: AnimMouse/setup-rclone@v1
    with:
      rclone_config: |
        [rclone-test-remote]
        type = http
        url = https://beta.rclone.org/test/
      disable_base64: true
      
  - run: 'rclone lsd rclone-test-remote:'
```

### Specific version
You can specify the version you want. By default, this action downloads the latest version if version is not specified.

```yaml
steps:
  - name: Setup Rclone
    uses: AnimMouse/setup-rclone@v1
    with:
      rclone_config: ${{ secrets.RCLONE_CONFIG }}
      version: v1.61.0
```

### GitHub token
This action automatically uses a GitHub token in order to authenticate with GitHub API and avoid rate limiting. You can also specify your own read-only fine-grained personal access token.

```yaml
steps:
  - name: Setup Rclone
    uses: AnimMouse/setup-rclone@v1
    with:
      rclone_config: ${{ secrets.RCLONE_CONFIG }}
      token: ${{ secrets.GH_PAT }}
```

#### Similar actions
1. [NiceLabs/rclone-action](https://github.com/NiceLabs/rclone-action)
2. [wei/rclone](https://github.com/wei/rclone)
3. [andreiio/rclone-action](https://github.com/andreiio/rclone-action)
